Welcome back in this lesson we're looking at logical operators so they're going to allow us to extend
what we could do with the comparison operators.
I set up a few variables here a equals to 5 B course time C equals 5.
So I'd go ahead and open up your browser and we're going to try a few different things out here.
So we know that A is equal to five.
So we saw it previously where we can do a equals five and we can see that that's true with the logical
operators we can apply some additional logic to that.
So we can do a equal to 5.
And then we're not going to close off this bracket quite yet and we're going to use.
And so what.
And it's going to do is this is going to force us to check to see if this one is true.
And this one is true source.
Check to see if A is equal to see.
So notice that I've only got the two equal signs there.
So what do you think the return value here is going to be for if A is equal to 5.
And if A is equal to see.
So if you said true you're correct.
But what if we actually do the absolute value.
If A is equal to 5 but the types are the same.
A and C.
So what do you think is going to happen here.
And if you said false you're correct because both of these need to be true in order for the response
to be true.
So it's clear that up and we can also extend it to multiple values so we can do if A is equal to five
and A is equal to see.
And we can also do one more as well we can do as many as we want and that's really the nice thing about
logical operators is that you can add in as many as needed in order to apply your logic.
So this time what's to be and were checked to see if B is equal to and this time was 2 3 times 2 because
we know the value of b is 10 A is 5.
So basically we know that if we multiply five times two we're going to get 10.
And this value's going to be true.
We could also use the war.
So the way that we could use this we're going to move some of these and we know that he is not absolutely
equal to see.
So we know that if we do that and we get a false there but if we use the or.
So this is going to be different because this is going to give us the ability to check to see if any
one of these is true.
And if any one is true then we're going to get a response back of true.
So that's the big difference between and and or that when we're using.
And they all have to be the same.
They all have to be true or they're going to come back as false.
So everything has to be true to be true.
And with that or only one has to be true and that will return back a value of true.
And the way to get false is if all of them are false.
And then of course over here if one of these false We're going to return back false.
We can also use the not so you might see this as well sometimes where there's this explanation mark.
And then there is a statement so we can do to check to see if A is absolutely available equal to see.
And this is basically reversing their results.
So typically we know that the result for this would be false because A and C but the data types are
different.
But we see that when we put that explanation mark in front then it actually flips the boolean value
so instead of returning back false it's going to return back true.
So there's quite a bit here to take in and applying logic within Colwood is really essential skill when
you're caught coding because it's always comes down to being able to create these types of statements
and apply that logic.
And this is what can take actions and create some type of results within your programming language.
So now let's try another exercise.
And in this case let's do multiple values and we're going to see if it's coming back true or false.
So created some statements here and Javascript wrote putting them into the console.
And what do you think the results are going to be.
So either they're going to be true or false.
And what I want you to do now is to take a look at what's being put here in the console and try to guess
to see what that output is going to be.
So I got it in a couple of other values in here.
I had it in the turret terrine ary operator here that's checking to see the modulus seeing if it's greater
than zero and checking to see returning odd or even.
So take a look at this code pausa video and let me know which ones are true and which ones are false
within these console log messages and I'll pop Pozza video here and I'll show you the results coming
up.
I hope you had the opportunity to take a look at these statements and determine if they're going to
be true or false.
So let's start with this first one here type of A is equal to number.
So what do you think this one's going to be.
Remember A is equal to five and it is a number.
Number.
This value here is actually going to be a string.
So what do you think is going to be the result here.
Do you think that type of A is equal to number.
And if you said true you are correct this one is true.
The next one type of C..
So we know that C is a string type of number and we've got type a number.
So do you think that type of number is equal to type of see.
Do you think that they're equivalent.
True or false.
And if you said true or not one you are correct because we're looking at type of number.
And as I said before our number is actually going to be a string.
So we're actually looking at type of Not that we're looking at a type of number.
We're looking at type of string.
And this is going to be returned as a string type of C as a string as well.
So you can see that when you type that in over here within the con. We see a type of string type of
number.
There are both strings.
Lastly we've got a really long statement here where we're checking to see if D is equal to odd.
So we're we have to evaluate what the results of the statement are going to be in order to determine
if this is true or false.
And remember we're using ants here only.
So they all have to evaluate to be true.
We can't have any that are false or However otherwise this whole statement is going to go false.
So what do you think the result here is.
Do you think it's going to be true or false.
And if you said true you are correct.
So I had set them all to be true.
All these statements are true.
So B.
So we were incrementing B plus 1.
So we're turning the result here of B.
So this is 11 modulus 5.
We know 5 goes into 11 twice has a remainder of 1.
So we know that a 1 is greater than zero.
So we're returning back a value of odd for the next where he can look at B and we can see if B is greater
than 10 and it actually is greater than 10 because the current value is all 11.
So we are greater than 10.
So this is true as well and we see that B is greater than or equal to a times 2.
So a is still five times 2 is 10.
And we know that a B is greater than or equal to 10.
So this one is true as well.
So I go back out here and refresh it and we can see that all of those console messages equate to being
true.
It's true.
Do try it for yourself and challenge yourself and see what different operators between the different
comparison operators as well as applying some logical operators and see what types of challenges you
can assign for yourself.
You can also make it really super interesting by applying even the not so they're not.
Here's another one that we can apply multiple times so we can do something like If B is less than 10
and we can add that in and this one will still be true because we know that B is actually greater than
10 but the knot is actually giving us the ability to flip it around.
So do try it for yourself and create some interesting challenges and see if you can guess what the value
is going to be.
The boolean value is going to be on the return of the statements.